- How many times do you need
to shuffle a deck of cards
to make them truly random?
How much uranium does it
take to build a nuclear bomb?
(explosion booming)
How can you predict the
next word in a sentence?
And how does Google know which page
you're actually searching for?
Well, the reason we know the answer
to all of these questions
is because of a strange
math feud in Russia
that took place over 100 years ago.
In 1905, socialist
groups all across Russia
rose up against the Tsar,
the ruler of the empire.
They demanded a complete political reform,
or failing that, that he stepped
down from power entirely.
- This divided the nation into two.
So on one side you got
the Tsarists, right?
They wanted to defend the status quo
and keep the Tsar in power.
But then on the other side,
you had the socialists
who wanted this complete political reform.
And this division was so bad
that it crept into every part of society
to the point where even mathematicians
started picking sides.
- [Derek] On the side of
the Tsar was Pavel Nekrasov,
unofficially called the
Tsar of Probability.
Nekrasov was a deeply
religious and powerful man,
and he used his status to
argue that math could be used
to explain free will and the will of God.
- His intellectual nemesis
on the socialist side
was Andrey Markov, also
known as Andrey The Furious.
Markov was an atheist
and he had no patience for people
who were being unrigorous,
something he considered Nekrasov to be,
because in his eyes,
math had nothing to do
with free will or religion.
So he publicly criticized Nekrasov's work,
listing it among "the
abuses of mathematics."
Their feud centered on the main idea
people had used to do probability
for the last 200 years.
And we can illustrate this
with a simple coin flip.
When I flip the coin 10 times,
I get six times heads
and four times tails,
which is obviously not
the 50/50 you'd expect.
But if I keep flipping the coin,
then at first the ratio
jumps all over the place.
But after a large number of flips,
we see that it slowly settles
down and approaches 50/50.
And in this case, after 100 flips,
we end up on 51 heads and 49 tails,
which is almost exactly
what you would expect.
This behavior that the average outcome
gets closer and closer
to the expected value
as you run more and
more independent trials
is known as the law of large numbers.
It was first proven by
Jacob Bernoulli in 1713,
and it was the key concept
at the heart of probability theory
right up until Markov and Nekrasov.
But Bernoulli only proved
that it worked for independent events
like a fair coin flip,
or when you ask people to guess
how much they think an item is worth,
where one event doesn't
influence the others.
But now imagine that instead
of asking each person
to submit their guess individually,
you ask people to shout
out their answer in public.
Well, in this case,
the first person might think
it's an extraordinarily valuable item,
and say it's worth around $2,000,
but now all the other people in the room
are influenced by this value,
and so, their guesses
have become dependent.
And now the average doesn't
converge to the true value,
but instead it clusters
around a higher amount.
- And so, for 200 years,
probability had relied
on this key assumption,
that you need independence
to observe the law of large numbers.
And this was the idea
that sparked Nekrasov and Markov's feud.
See, Nekrasov agreed with Bernoulli
that you need independence to
get the law of large numbers.
But he took it one step further.
He said, if you see the
law of large numbers,
you can infer that the underlying events
must be independent.
- Take this table of Belgian
marriages from 1841 to 1845.
Now you see that every year
the average is about 29,000.
And so, it seems like the values converge
and therefore that they follow
the law of large numbers.
And when Nekrasov looked
at other social statistics
like crime rates and birth rates,
he noticed a similar pattern.
But now think about where
all this data is coming from.
It's coming from decisions to get married,
decisions to commit crimes,
and decisions to have babies,
at least for the most part.
So Nekrasov reasoned that
because these statistics
followed the law of large numbers,
the decisions causing
them must be independent.
In other words,
he argued that they must
be acts of free will.
So to him, free will wasn't
just something philosophical,
it was something you could measure.
It was scientific.
- [Derek] But to Markov,
Nekrasov was delusional.
He thought it was absurd
to link mathematical
independence to free will.
So Markov set out to prove
that dependent events
could also follow the
law of large numbers,
and that you can still do
probability with dependent events.
- To do this, he needed something
where one event clearly
depended on what came before,
and he got the idea that
this is what happens in text.
Whether your next letter
is a consonant or a vowel
depends heavily on what
the current letter is.
So to test this, Markov turned to a poem
at the heart of Russian literature,
"Eugene Onegin" by Alexander Pushkin.
- He took the first 20,000
letters of the poem,
stripped out all punctuation and spaces,
and pushed them together into
one long string of characters.
He counted the letters
and found that 43% were vowels
and 57% were consonants.
Then Markov broke the string
into overlapping pairs,
that gave him four possible combinations,
vowel-vowel, consonant-consonant,
vowel-consonant, or consonant-vowel.
Now, if the letters were independent,
the probability of a vowel-vowel pair
would just be the
probability of a vowel twice,
which is about 0.18 or an 18% chance.
But when Markov actually counted,
he found vowel-vowel pairs
only show up 6% of the time,
way less than if they were independent.
And when he checked the other pairs,
he found that all actual
values differed greatly
from what the independent
case would predict.
So Markov had shown that
the letters were dependent.
And to beat Nekrasov, all
he needed to do now was show
that these letters still followed
the law of large numbers.
So he created a prediction
machine of sorts.
He started by drawing two circles,
one for a vowel and one for a consonant.
These were his states.
Now, say you're at a vowel,
then the next letter could
either be a vowel or a consonant.
So he drew two arrows to
represent these transitions.
But what are these
transition probabilities?
Well, Markov knew that if you
pick a random starting point,
there is a 43% chance
that it'll be a vowel.
He also knew that vowel-vowel pairs
occur about 6% of the time.
So to find the probability
of going from a vowel to another vowel,
he divided 0.06 by 0.43
to find a transition
probability of about 13%.
And since there is a 100% chance
that another letter comes next,
all the arrows going from the same state
need to add up to one.
So the chance of going to a consonant
is one minus 0.13, or 87%.
He repeated this process
for the consonants
to complete his predictive machine.
So let's see how it works.
We'll start at a vowel.
Next, we generate a random
number between zero and one.
If it's below 0.13, we get another vowel,
if it's above, we get a consonant.
We got 0.78, so we get a consonant,
then we generate another number,
and check if it's above or below 0.67,
0.21, so we get a vowel.
Now, we can keep doing this
and keep track of the ratio
of vowels to consonants.
At first, the ratio
jumps all over the place,
but after a while, it
converges to a steady value,
43% vowels and 57% consonants,
the exact split Markov
had counted by hand.
So Markov had built a dependent system,
a literal chain of events,
and he showed that it still followed
the law of large numbers,
which meant that observing
convergence in social statistics
didn't prove that the underlying
decisions were independent.
In other words,
those statistics don't
prove free will at all.
Markov had shattered Nekrasov's
argument, and he knew it.
So he ended his paper with
one final dig at his rival.
"Thus, free will is not
necessary to do probability."
In fact, independence
isn't even necessary to do probability.
With this Markov chain,
as it came to be known,
he found a way to do probability
with dependent events.
This should have been a huge breakthrough,
because in the real world,
almost everything is
dependent on something else.
I mean, the weather tomorrow
depends on the conditions today.
How a disease spreads
depends on who's infected right now,
and the behavior of particles
depends on the behavior
of particles around them.
Many of these processes
could be modeled using Markov chains.
Do people think it was
like a mic drop moment
and like, "Oh, Nekrasov's
out, like, Markov's the man"?
Or people didn't really
notice, or it was obscure, or?
- I feel like people didn't really notice,
like, it wasn't a really big thing.
And Markov himself
seemingly didn't care much
about how it might be
applied to practical events.
He wrote, "I'm concerned
only with questions
of pure analysis.
I refer to the question
of the applicability
with indifference."
Little did he know that this
new form of probability theory
would soon play a major role
in one of the most important developments
of the 20th century.
On the morning of the 16th of July, 1945,
the United States detonated The Gadget,
the world's first nuclear bomb.
The six kilogram plutonium
bomb created an explosion
that was equivalent to
nearly 25,000 tons of TNT.
This was the culmination
of the top secret Manhattan Project,
a three-year long effort
by some of the smartest people alive,
including people like
J. Robert Oppenheimer,
John von Neumann,
and a little known mathematician
named Stanislaw Ulam.
- [Derek] Even after the war ended,
Ulam continued trying to figure out
how neutrons behave inside a nuclear bomb.
Now, a nuclear bomb works
something like this.
Say you have a core of uranium-235,
then when a neutron hits a U-235 nucleus,
the nucleus splits releasing energy
and, crucially, two or
three more neutrons.
If, on average, those
new neutrons go on to hit
and split more than one
other U-235 nucleus,
you get a runaway chain reaction,
so you have a nuclear bomb.
But uranium-235, the fissile
fuel needed for the bombs
was really hard to get.
So one of the key questions
was just how much of it
do you need to build a bomb?
And this is why Ulam wanted to understand
how the neutrons behave.
- [Casper] But then in January of 1946,
everything came to a halt.
Ulam was struck by a sudden and
severe case of encephalitis,
an inflammation of the brain,
that nearly killed him.
His recovery was long and slow,
with Ulam spending most
of his time in beds.
To pass the time, he played a
simple card game, Solitaire.
But as he played countless games,
winning some, losing others,
one question kept nagging at him,
what are the chances
that a randomly-shuffled game
of Solitaire could be won?
It was a deceivingly
difficult problem to solve.
Ulam played with all 52 cards
where each arrangement
created a unique game,
so the total number of possible
games was 52 factorial,
or about eight times 10 to 67.
So solving this analytically was hopeless.
But then Ulam had a flash of insight,
what if I just play hundreds of games
and count how many could be won?
That would give him
some sort of statistical
approximation of the answer.
Back at Los Alamos, the
remaining scientists
grappled with much harder
problems than Solitaire,
like figuring out how neutrons
behave inside a nuclear core.
In a nuclear core,
there are trillions and
trillions of neutrons
all interacting with their surroundings.
So the number of possible
outcomes is immense,
and computing it directly
seemed impossible.
- [Derek] But when Ulam returned to work,
he had a sudden revelation.
What if we could simulate these systems
by generating lots of random outcomes
like I did with Solitaire?
He shared this idea with von Neumann,
who immediately recognized its power,
but also spotted a key problem.
- See, in Solitaire,
each game is independent.
How the cards are dealt in one game
have no effect on the next,
but neutrons aren't like that.
A neutron's behavior
depends on where it is
and what it has done before.
So you couldn't just
sample random outcomes
like in Solitaire.
Instead, you needed to model
a whole chain of events
where each step influenced the next.
What von Neumann realized
is that you needed a Markov chain.
So they made one
and a much simplified version of it
works something like this.
Now, the starting state
is just a neutron
traveling through the core,
and from there, three things can happen.
It can scatter off an
atom and keep traveling,
so that gives you an arrow
going back to itself.
It can leave the system
or get absorbed by a non-fissile material,
in which case it no longer takes
part in the chain reaction,
and so it ends its Markov chain,
or it can strike another uranium-235 atom,
triggering a fission event
and releasing two or three more neutrons
that then start their own chains.
But in this chain,
the transition probabilities aren't fixed,
they depend on things like
the neutron's position,
velocity and energy,
as well as the overall
configuration and mass of uranium.
So a fast-moving neutron might
have a 30% chance to scatter,
a 50% chance to be absorbed or leave,
and a 20% chance to cause fission.
But a slower-moving neutron
would have different probabilities.
Next, they ran this chain
on the world's first
electronic computer, the ENIAC.
The computer started
by randomly generating a
neutron starting conditions
and stepped through the chain
to keep track of how many neutrons
were produced on average per run,
known as the multiplication factor k.
So if, on average, one neutron
produces another two neutrons,
then k is equal to two.
And if on average every two
neutrons produce three neutrons,
then k is equal to three
over two, and so on.
Then, after stepping
through the full chain
for a specified number of steps,
we collect the average k-value
and record that number in a histogram.
This process was then
repeated hundreds of times,
and the results tallied up,
giving you a statistical
distribution of the outcome.
If you find that in most
cases, k is less than one,
the reaction dies down.
If it's equal to one,
there's a self-sustaining chain reaction,
but it doesn't grow.
And if k is larger than one,
the reaction grows exponentially
and you've got a bomb.
- With it, von Neumann and
Ulam had a statistical way
to figure out how many
neutrons were produced
without having to do
any exact calculations.
In other words,
they could approximate
differential equations
that were too hard to solve analytically.
All that was needed was a
name for the new method.
Now, Ulam's uncle was a gambler,
and the random sampling
and high stakes reminded Ulam
of the Monte Carlo Casino in
Monaco, and the name stuck.
The  Monte
Carlo method was born.
The method was so successful
that it didn't stay secret for long.
By the end of 1948,
scientists at another
lab, Argonne, in Chicago,
used it to study nuclear reactor designs,
and from there, the idea spread quickly.
Ulam later remarked,
"It is still an unending
source of surprise for me
to see how a few scribbles on a blackboard
could change the course of human affairs."
And it wouldn't be the last time
Markov chain based method
changed the course of human affairs.
(upbeat music)
- In 1993, the internet
was open to the public,
and soon it exploded.
By the mid-1990s, thousands of
new pages appeared every day,
and that number was only growing.
This created a new kind of problem.
I mean, how do you find anything
in this ever-expending sea of information?
In 1994, two Stanford PhD students,
Jerry Yang and David Filo,
founded the search engine Yahoo,
to address this issue,
but they needed money.
So a year later, they arranged to meet
with Japanese billionaire, Masayoshi Son,
also known as the Bill Gates of Japan.
(gong clangs)
- They were looking to raise $5 million
for their next startup,
but Son has other plans.
He offers to invest a
full $100 million instead.
That's 20 times more than
what the founders asked for.
So Jerry Yang declines saying,
"We don't need that much,"
but Son disagrees,
"Jerry, everyone needs $100 million."
(Son laughs)
Before the founders get
a chance to respond,
Son jumps in again and asks,
"Who are your biggest competitors?"
"Excite and lycos," the pair respond.
Son orders his associate
to write those names down.
And then he says, "If you
don't let me invest in Yahoo,
I will invest in one of
them and I'll kill you."
See, Son had realized something.
None of the leading
search engines at the time
had any superior technology.
They didn't have a technological
advantage over the others.
They all just ranked pages
by how often a search term
appears on a given page.
So the battle for the
number one search engine
would be decided by who
could attract the most users,
who could spend the most on marketing.
- [Announcer 1] Lycos, go get it.
- [Announcer 2] Get Lycos, or get lost.
- [Announcer 3] This is revolution.
(upbeat funky music)
♪ Yahoo ♪
- [Derek] And marketing
required a lot of money,
money that Son had, so he
could decide who won the war.
Yahoo's founders realized they
were left with no real choice
but to accept Son's investment.
- [Speaker] So here we are,
right in the middle of Yahoo.
- [Derek] And within four years,
Yahoo became the most
popular site on the planet.
- [Reporter] In the time it
takes to say this sentence,
Yahoo will answer 79,000
information requests worldwide,
the two men are now
worth $120 million each.
♪ Yahoo ♪
- But Yahoo had a critical weakness.
See, Yahoo's keyword
search was easy to trick.
To get your page ranked highly,
you could just repeat
keywords hundreds of times,
hidden with white text
on a white background.
- One thing they didn't
have in those early days
was a notion of quality of the result.
So they had a notion of relevance saying,
does this document talk about the thing
that you're interested in?
But there wasn't really a
notion of which ones are better.
- What they really needed
was a way to rank pages
by both relevance and quality.
But how do you measure
the quality of a webpage?
Well, to understand that,
we need to borrow an idea from libraries.
- So I'm old enough that library books
used to have a paper card in it
that was a stamp of all the due dates
of when it was due back.
You took a book and if
it had a lot of those,
you said, "Oh, this is
probably a good book."
And if it didn't have any, you said,
"Well, maybe this isn't the best book."
- Stamps acted like endorsements.
The more stamps, the
better the book must be.
And the same idea can
be applied to the web.
Over at Stanford, two PhD students,
Sergey Brin and Larry Page,
were working on this exact problem.
Brin and Page realized
that each link to a page
can be thought of as an endorsement.
And the more links a page sends out,
the less valuable each vote becomes.
So what they realized is
that we can model the web
as a Markov chain.
- [Derek] To see how this works,
imagine a toy internet
with just four webpages.
Call them Amy, Ben, Chris, and Dan.
These are our states.
Typically, one webpage links to others,
allowing you to move between them.
These are our transitions.
In this setup, Amy only links to Ben,
so there's a 100% chance
of going from Amy to Ben.
Ben links to Amy, Chris, and Dan,
so there's a 33% chance of
going to any of those pages,
and we can fill out the other
transition probabilities
in the same way.
So now we can run this Markov
chain and see what happens.
Imagine you're a surfer on this web.
You start on a random page, say, Amy,
and you keep running the machine
and keep track of the percentage of time
you spend on each page.
Over time, the ratio settles
and the scores give us some measure
of the relative importance of these pages.
You spend the most time on Ben,
so Ben is ranked first,
followed by Amy, then Dan,
and lastly Chris.
It might seem like there's an
easy way to beat the system,
just make 100 pages all
linking to your website.
Now you get 100 full votes
and you'll always rank on
top, but that is not the case.
While during their first few steps,
they might make your page seem important,
none of the other websites link to them.
So over many steps, their
contributions don't matter.
You might have many links,
but they're not quality links,
so they don't affect the algorithm.
- But there is still one problem, though,
not all pages are connected.
In networks like this one,
a random server can get stuck in a loop,
never reaching the rest of the web.
So to fix this,
we can set a rule that 85% of the time,
our random server just
follows a link like normal.
But then for about 15% of the time,
they just jump to a page at random.
This damping factor makes sure
that we explore all
possible parts of the web
without ever getting stuck.
By using Markov chains,
Page and Brin had built
a better search engine,
and they called it PageRank.
- Because it's talking
about how pages react,
webpages react with each other
and also 'cause the
founder's name is Larry Page,
so he snuck that in.
- With PageRank,
Google got much better search results,
often getting you to the site
you were looking for in one go.
Although, to some, this
sounded like a terrible idea.
- Others said, "Oh, well you're
telling me you get a search
that will get the right
result on the first answer?
Well, I don't want that
because if it takes them
three or four chances,
searches to get the right answer,
then I have three or
four chances to show ads,
and if you get 'em the answer right away,
I'm just gonna lose them.
So, you know, I don't see
why better search is better."
- But Page and Brin disagreed.
They were convinced that if
their product was far superior,
then people would flock to it.
- I would say it actually
is a democracy that works.
If all pages were equal,
anybody can manufacture as
many pages as they want.
I can set up a billion
pages in my server tomorrow.
We shouldn't treat them all as equal.
Just looking at the data out of curiosity,
we found that we had technology
to do a better job of search,
and we realized how impactful
having great search can be.
- And so, in 1998, they
launched their new search engine
to take on Yahoo.
Initially, they called it BackRub,
after the backlinks it analyzed,
but then they realized
that maybe that's not
the most attractive name.
Now, their ambitions were big
to essentially index all
the pages on the internet,
and they needed a name equally as big.
So they thought of the largest
number they could think of,
10 to the power of 100, a googol.
But then when trying to
register their domain,
they accidentally misspelled it.
And so, Google was born.
(dramatic music)
Over the next four years,
Google overthrew Yahoo
to become the most used search engine.
- Everyone who knows the internet
almost certainly knows Google.
- Googling is like oxygen to teenagers.
- [Casper] And today, Alphabet,
which is Google's parent company,
is worth around $2 trillion.
- When Google makes even
the slightest change
in its algorithms, it
can have huge effects.
- Google.
- They're on fire.
And the reason why they're on fire
is because they're focused
and they're more focused
than Yahoo who does search,
they're more focused than Microsoft
who does search with Bing.
Yahoo has lots of
traffic, they always have,
they have some really great properties,
but I don't think Yahoo is
the go-to place, you know.
- And at the heart of this
trillion dollar algorithm
is a Markov chain, which only
looks at the current state
to predict what's going to happen next.
But in the 1940s, Claude Shannon,
the father of information theory,
started asking a different question.
He went back to Markov's
original idea of predicting text,
but instead of just using
vowels and consonants,
he focused on individual letters.
And he wondered,
what if instead of looking
at only the last letter as a predictor,
I look at the last two?
Well, with that, he got
text that looked like this.
Now, it doesn't make much sense,
but there are some recognizable words
like "whey", "of", and "the".
But Shannon was convinced
he could do better.
So next, instead of looking at letters,
he wondered, what if I use
entire words as predictors?
That gave him sentences like this,
"The head and in frontal
attack on an English writer
that the character of this point
is therefore another
method for the letters
that the time of who ever told the problem
for an unexpected."
Now, clearly, this doesn't make any sense,
but Shannon did notice that
sequences of four words or so
generally did make sense.
For instance, "attack
on an English writer"
kind of makes sense.
So Shannon learned that
you can make better
and better predictions
about what the next word is going to be
by taking into account more
and more of the previous words.
It's kind of like what Gmail does
when it predicts what
you're going to type next.
And this is no coincidence,
the algorithms that make these predictions
are based on Markov chains.
- They're not necessarily
using letters, you know,
-Yeah
they use what they call tokens,
some of which are letters,
some of which are words,
marks of punctuation, whatever.
So it's a bigger set
than just the alphabet.
The game is simply, we
have this string of tokens
that, you know, might be 30 long,
and we're asking what are the odds
that the next token is
this or this or this?
- [Derek] But today's
large language models
don't treat all those tokens equally,
because unlike simple Markov chains,
they also use something called attention,
which tells the model
what to pay attention to.
So in the phrase, "the
structure of the cell,"
the model can use previous context
like blood and mitochondria
to know the cell most likely refers
to biology rather than a prison cell.
And it uses that to tune its prediction.
But as large language models
become more widespread,
one concern is that the text they produce
ends up on the internet
and that becomes training
data for future models.
- When you start doing that,
the game is very soon over.
You come, in this case, to
us, a very dull, stable state,
it just says the same thing
over and over and over again forever.
The language models are
vulnerable to this process.
- And any system like this
where we have a feedback loop,
will become hard to model
using Markov chains.
Take global warming, for instance,
as we increase the amount of
carbon dioxide in the air,
the average temperature
of the Earth increases.
But as the temperature increases,
the atmosphere can hold more water vapor,
which is an incredibly
powerful greenhouse gas.
And with more water vapor,
the temperature increases further
allowing for even more water vapor.
So you get this positive feedback loop,
which makes it hard to predict
what's going to happen next.
So there are some systems
where Markov chains don't work,
but for many other dependent systems,
they offer a way of doing probability.
- But what's fascinating
is that all these systems
have extremely long histories.
I mean, you could trace back
all the letters in a text,
trace back all the interactions
of what a neutron did,
or trace back the weather for weeks.
But the beautiful thing
Markov and others found
is that for many of these systems
you can ignore almost all of that.
You can just look at the current state
and forget about the rest,
that makes these systems memoryless.
And it's this memoryless property
that makes Markov chains so powerful
because it's what allows you
to take these extremely complex systems
and simplify them a lot
to still make meaningful predictions.
- [Derek] As one paper
put it, "Problem-solving
is often a matter of cooking up
an appropriate Markov chain."
- It's kind of ridiculous to me
that this basic fact of mathematics
would come out of a fight like that,
which, you know, really
had nothing to do with it.
But all the evidence suggests
that it really was this determination
to show up Nekrasov that
led Markov to do the work.
- But there's one question
we still haven't answered.
When playing Solitaire,
how did Ulam know his cards
were perfectly shuffled?
I mean, how many shuffles does it take
to get a completely random
arrangement of cards?
- If you have a deck of cards,
you need to shuffle it, right?
How often, if you're
shuffling, like, you know,
you split it in half, and then you do the
(cards riffling).
How often do you have to shuffle it
to make it completely random?
- Two.
- Two?
I'm going with 26.
- Yeah, four times.
- Four times?
- I don't know, 52 times?
- Okay. Okay.
It's not a bad guess.
- Seven?
- It is seven.
- Really?
- Yeah.
So you can think of card
shuffling as a Markov chain
where each deck arrangement is a state,
and then each shuffle is a step.
And so for a deck of 52 cards,
if you riffle shuffle it seven times,
then every arrangement of the
deck is about equally likely,
so it's basically random.
But I can't shuffle like that.
So for me, what I do is I do it like this.
How many times do you think
you have to shuffle like this
to get it random?
(beeping)
- What do you think?
And perhaps more importantly,
how would you go about working it out?
Well, that's where today's
sponsor Brilliant comes in.
Brilliant is a learning app
that gets you hands-on with
problems just like this.
Whether it's math, physics, programming,
or even AI, Brilliant's
interactive lessons and challenges
let you play your way to a sharper mind.
You can discover how large
language models actually work
from basic Markov chains
to complex neural networks,
or dig into the math behind
this shuffling question.
It's a fun way to build
knowledge and skills
that help you solve all kinds of problems,
which brings us back to our shuffle.
So Casper, what actually is the answer?
- It's actually over 2,000.
- What?
- Over-
- Crazy, right?
- Yeah.
- So the next time someone
offers to shuffle before a game,
make sure they're doing it right,
seven riffles or it doesn't count.
But the interesting part
isn't just knowing that,
it's understanding why
and seeing how a simple question
can lead you to some
surprisingly complex mathematics.
And that's what Brilliant is all about.
So to try everything Brilliant
has to offer for free
for a full 30 days,
visit brilliant.org/veritasium,
click that link in the description
or scan this handy QR code.
And if you sign up,
you'll also get 20% off their
annual premium subscription.
So I wanna thank Brilliant
for sponsoring this video
and I wanna thank you for watching.
(upbeat music)
- Easy.
(light music)